---

title: Complete Map of Unified Star Configurations in the Heavens
layout: entry
order: 104
object:
  - id: adler-star
---

{% accordion '## About this object' '' 'open' %}

In this blue celestial chart, printed in 1826, most of the body text is identical to that on the [*Celestial Chart* rubbing](/catalogue/2/) (<span class="inline-characters chinese-characters">天文圖</span> [Tianwen tu]{.inline-characters .romanization-characters}) from 1247. On the planisphere, however, constellations have been updated with additional stars discovered by Europeans. These discoveries, made possible by the invention of the telescope, were introduced into Chinese star charts by Europeans working in the Chinese court from the seventeenth century onwards. The curved course of the Milky Way (<span class="inline-characters chinese-characters">天河</span> [tianhe]{.inline-characters .romanization-characters}, or “heavenly river”) is clearly indicated.

The outer ring of the blue chart marks the horizon, and directly connects the celestial realm with the terrestrial one. It reads counterclockwise, just as the night sky rotates when seen by an observer on earth, and includes numerous directional signifiers. For example, the section at the bottom of the chart with the “first” branch (<span class="inline-characters chinese-characters">子</span> [zi]{.inline-characters .romanization-characters}) is in the <span class="inline-characters chinese-characters">元枵</span> [yuanxiao]{.inline-characters .romanization-characters} position, corresponding to the ancient state of [Qi]{.inline-characters .romanization-characters} <span class="inline-characters chinese-characters">齊</span>and [Qingzhou]{.inline-characters .romanization-characters} <span class="inline-characters chinese-characters">青州</span> province (today’s [Shandong]{.inline-characters .romanization-characters} <span class="inline-characters chinese-characters">山東</span> province). This is one of many indications that specific sets of constellations are tied to the ancient twelve provinces of China. The horizon band provides astrological cues and emphasizes the intended functionality of correlations and correspondences between heaven and earth.

{% endaccordion %}

{% crosslink 'Calligraphy' %}

The blue star chart presents three different types of calligraphy. The first (far right) sheet presents the eight-character title in seal script (<span class="inline-characters chinese-characters">篆書</span> [zhuanshu]{.inline-characters .romanization-characters}), the last (far left) sheet presents an epilogue, a date, and a signature of the maker in clerical script (<span class="inline-characters chinese-characters">隸書</span> [lishu]{.inline-characters .romanization-characters}), and the remaining six sheets present celestial information using standard script (<span class="inline-characters chinese-characters">楷書</span> [kaishu]{.inline-characters .romanization-characters}). It is highly unusual in Chinese visual arts to see a single object present three distinctive styles of calligraphy.

The final sheet of the 1826 star chart is signed by [Qian Yong]{.inline-characters .romanization-characters} <span class="inline-characters chinese-characters">錢泳</span> (1759–1844), a poet and author. Qian was an accomplished calligrapher and collector who traveled extensively around China collecting samples of rubbings from stele. The celestial chart’s design with multiple styles of calligraphy suggests that a calligrapher, like Qian, designed the text layout. The fact that the blue maps and charts are produced by a rubbing technique, as well as the location of the stone stele in Suzhou, offer additional clues that he was involved throughout the production process.

{% endcrosslink %}

{% crosslink 'Planisphere' %}

The outer ring that surrounds the planisphere is read counterclockwise and indicates numerous directional signifiers such as the widths of the 28 lunar mansions (the constellations that the moon “appears in” over the course of its cycle), the 12 terrestrial branches (<span class="inline-characters chinese-characters">辰</span> [chen]{.inline-characters .romanization-characters}), and 12 Jupiter stations or zodiacal positions (<span class="inline-characters chinese-characters">木星次</span> [muxingci]{.inline-characters .romanization-characters}). It also indicates the ancient states (<span class="inline-characters chinese-characters">分</span> [fen]{.inline-characters .romanization-characters}) and ancient divisions (<span class="inline-characters chinese-characters">野</span> [ye]{.inline-characters .romanization-characters}) of China “governed” by each group of stars. Known as “field allocation” (<span class="inline-characters chinese-characters">分野</span> [fenye]{.inline-characters .romanization-characters}) systems, in popular use in historical China since the first millennium BCE, this outer ring provided a framework for situating locations on earth with reference to specific regions in the night sky. Historically *fenye* charts related to astrology (<span class="inline-characters chinese-characters">佔驗</span> [zhanyan]{.inline-characters .romanization-characters}) and were created for political prognostication (<span class="inline-characters chinese-characters">星占</span> [xingzhan]{.inline-characters .romanization-characters}). Unusual celestial occurrences in particular heavenly fields could be interpreted as forecasts of harmony or disaster for specific important people in a corresponding earthly region. This created a relational co-existence and correlation between events observed in the sky and events on earth, a type of astrological consideration found in many cultures from ancient times until today.

{% endcrosslink %}


{% accordion '## Catalog essay' %}

The blue *Huntian yitong xingxiang quantu* (Complete chart of unified star configurations in the heavens) are star charts with related celestial information. The first (far right) sheet presents the title in seal script while the last (far left) sheet presents an epilogue, a date and a signature of the maker in clerical script. The remaining six sheets present a planisphere and related celestial information using standard script.

The main text body on the 1826 editions of the blue charts essentially copies the text of the 1247 *Tianwen tu* stele (see entry 2). The sections are clearly indicated by headings, presenting the Chinese characters in blue on white, while the primary text is white on a blue field; the same aesthetic found on the terrestrial maps.

The central and most eye-catching part of this chart is the planisphere. On it, each constellation is named and the curved course of the Milky Way (labeled as Tianhe <span class="inline-characters chinese-characters">天河</span>, "heavenly river") is clearly demarcated.[^1] The outer ring (horizon) of the blue charts provides pointers to understanding the night sky and even more directly connects the celestial realm with the terrestrial one. It reads counterclockwise (in the manner of the rotation of the night sky to an observer on earth) and indicates numerous directional signifiers, as also found on the 1247 *Tianwen tu*. The chart is printed in such a way that the characters always face outward. When the planisphere is "rotated" (conceptually as the physical object is too large) to the time of observation the characters at the "bottom" are always right side up and in a position to be easily read. They are rather technical and require an astronomical and astrological knowledge base. The directional signifiers include the relative widths of the twenty-eight lunar mansions, the twelve terrestrial branches (*chen* <span class="inline-characters chinese-characters">辰</span>), twelve Jupiter positions or zodiacal positions (*ci* <span class="inline-characters chinese-characters">次</span>), and the corresponding states and provinces under the astral allocation system (*fenye* <span class="inline-characters chinese-characters">分野</span>, also known as field-allocation). This division into twelve parts under the astral allocation system had been in astrological use since the late fifth century BCE and correlates celestial and terrestrial space.

For example, the section at the bottom of the chart with the "first" branch *zi* <span class="inline-characters chinese-characters">子</span> (north), is in the *yuanxiao* <span class="inline-characters chinese-characters">元枵</span> position, corresponding to the ancient state of Qi <span class="inline-characters chinese-characters">齊</span> and Qingzhou province <span class="inline-characters chinese-characters">青州</span> (today's Shandong province, see entry 2). This horizon band of the blue charts provides astrological cues and emphasizes the intended functionality of correlations and correspondences between heaven and earth that are to be interpreted by man. The blue charts, like the *Tianwen tu*, clearly indicate that specific sets of constellations are tied to the ancient twelve provinces of China. A direct correlation between heaven and earth is thus embedded into the chart itself. This conceptual consideration can be further applied to the overall framing of the combined two blue map and chart, which are created as a pair, terrestrial and celestial, and modeled on the 1247 *dili tu* and *tianwen tu*, maintaining the correlative properties between heaven and earth, within a Chinese cultural sphere.

The final sheet (missing on the Adler copy) has an epilogue that simply states the purpose of the map: To explain heavenly bodies. It is dated May 1826 (sixth year of Daoguang reign, fourth month <span class="inline-characters chinese-characters">道光六年歲在丙戊孟夏之月</span>) and signed by Qian Yong from Jingui <span class="inline-characters chinese-characters">金匱梅溪钱泳書</span>. Of all the ten editions of the terrestrial map and the four editions of the celestial map this is the final and only edition that has a signature of a known maker for the blue maps and charts. Qian Yong was a poet and author as well as an accomplished calligrapher of the so-called stone stele (*bei* <span class="inline-characters chinese-characters">碑</span>) school of calligraphy, traveling extensively around China collecting samples of rubbings from stele. That the celestial chart was designed with multiple styles of calligraphy suggests a calligrapher, like Qian Yong, designed the text layout and that he participated in the creation of all four editions. That the production of all the maps and charts are done in the manner of rubbings suggests a collector of rubbings suggested this method. And that the two stele that the blue map and chart are modeled after were, and still are, found in the city of Suzhou and the blue maps and charts were all produced in the city of Suzhou suggests that Qian Yong participated in all phases of production.

[^1]: In many cases the constellations are updated on the blue charts in comparison to the 1247 chart with additional stars discovered by Europeans (since the discovery of the telescope) and introduced into Chinese star charts by Europeans working in the Chinese court from the seventeenth century onwards.

{% endaccordion %}






{% backmatter %}


{% endbackmatter %}
